A group of organs working together to perform a certain function is called
a system
a tissue
an organism
a cell
3
Which structure's main function is to produce food (sugar) in a plant?
flower
leaf
root
seed
2
Which sequence lists the hereditary material found inside cells from the smallest unit to the largest unit?
chromosome => gene => nucleus
chromosome => nucleus => gene
gene => nucleus => chromosome
gene => chromosome => nucleus
4
A puggle is a type of dog first produced by mating two other types of dog, a pug and a beagle. This process is an example of
asexual reproduction
genetic engineering
selective breeding
natural selection
3
Which activity involves only a physical change?
grinding coffee beans
baking cookies
acid bubbling on rock
exploding fireworks
1
A student added some sugar to a glass of water, but it did not dissolve quickly. What could the student do to increase the rate at which the sugar dissolves in the water?
freeze the water
heat the water
add salt to the water
filter the water
2
Which measurement can be used to determine if a specific place is located north or south of the equator?
elevation in kilometers
altitude in kilometers
longitude in degrees
latitude in degrees
4
The hereditary material in corn plants can be altered by scientists so the plants produce more corn. Which term identifies this process?
environmental degradation
ecological succession
natural selection
genetic engineering
4
One function of a plant's seed is to
perform photosynthesis
provide food for early development
decompose dead organisms
reproduce sexually
2
Many scientists theorize that global warming will melt the polar ice caps. What would most likely happen if the polar ice caps melted?
Ocean levels would increase.
Human population would increase.
Vegetation in water would decrease.
Global precipitation would decrease.
1
The common goldeneye duck and striped bass share many similar structures. However, they belong to different animal groups. Which system is most different in these groups of animals?
circulatory
digestive
reproductive
respiratory
4
Fruit flies reproduce by sexual reproduction. What percent of genes does a fertilized egg of a fruit fly receive from one parent?
25%
50%
75%
100%
2
Most farmers use fertilizers on their cornfields. Which statement best explains why farmers should not use excess amounts of fertilizers?
Fertilizers may wash into streams.
Fertilizers may be used by weeds.
Fertilizers may evaporate into the air.
Fertilizers may come from natural materials.
1
How does pollution of surface water affect rivers?
The amount of water increases.
The number of floods decreases.
The quality of the water decreases.
The quantity of organisms increases.
3
Rivers and lakes sometimes receive an excessive amount of nutrients that increase algae and plant growth. Which type of human activity contributes most directly to the increase in nutrients?
allowing landfill leakage
use of pesticides
use of fertilizers
allowing oil spills
3
An increase in human population would most likely cause Earth’s freshwater supply to...
increase and become less polluted
decrease and become less polluted
increase and become more polluted
decrease and become more polluted
3
Data in tables may also be presented in graphs. Which type of data would best be displayed on a circle graph?
the distance of the planets from the sun
the depths of the major oceans on Earth
the amount of rainfall each day for a month
the percent of various materials in solid waste
4
Heat transfer is part of everyday life. Which of these examples involving heat transfer occurs mainly by conduction?
The sun warms the ground.
A hot oven warms a cold kitchen.
A campfire warms a person’s hands.
Hot soup warms a metal spoon handle.
